moved communications guidelines from governance, updated and clarified process (#26703)
matplotlib/matplotlib: doc/devel/communication_guide.rst

Active social media
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* https://twitter.com/matplotlib
* https://instagram.com/matplotart/

Official accounts
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
* https://bsky.app/profile/matplotlib.bsky.social
* https://fosstodon.org/@matplotlib
* https://www.tiktok.com/@matplotart
* https://www.youtube.com/matplotlib

.. _mailing-lists:

Mailing lists
----------------

* `matplotlib-announce@python.org <https://mail.python.org/mailman/listinfo/matplotlib-announce>`_
* `matplotlib-users@python.org <https://mail.python.org/mailman/listinfo/matplotlib-users>`_
* `matplotlib-devel@python.org <https://mail.python.org/mailman/listinfo/matplotlib-devel>`_

.. _social-media-coordination:

Social media coordination
-------------------------
* team mailing list: matplotlib-social@numfocus.org
* public chat room: `https://matrix.to/#/#matplotlib_community:gitter.im <https://matrix.to/#/#matplotlib_community:gitter.im>`_

Maintenance
-----------

If you are interested in moderating the chat or forum or accessing the social media accounts:

* matplotlib maintainer: reach out to the `community manager <https://matplotlib.org/governance/people.html#deputy-project-leads>`_ to elevate privileges.

> * everyone else: send an email explaining why to matplotlib-social-admin@numfocus.org

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* everyone else: send an email describing your motivation and backgroundto matplotlib-social-admin@numfocus.org
```
May be a bit more to the point.

Content guidelines
====================
Communication on official channels, such as the Matplotlib homepage or on
Matplotlib social accounts, should conform to the following standards:

* be primarily about Matplotlib, 3rd party packages, and visualizations made with Matplotlib
* also acceptable topics: Python, Visualization, NumFOCUS libraries
* no gratuitous disparaging of other visualization libraries and tools; criticism is acceptable so long as it serves a constructive purpose
* follow visualization communication best practices:

  * don't share non-expert visualizations when it could be harmful

>   * put on meeting agenda when answer isn't clearly to hold off on sharing.

Reviewer: This is not a "visualization communication best practices"

Also, the wording is a bit unclear. Which answer? Which meeting? Do you mean "If it is unclear whether content can be published under the above rules, the topic should be discussed in the Matplotlib developer meeting"?

  * clearly state when the visualization data/conclusions cannot be verified
  * do not rely on machine translations for sensitive visualizations

>   * example: https://twitter.com/matplotlib/status/1244178154618605568

Reviewer: This should not be a bullet point. Either it belongs to one of the above points or it should be a section of its own

* verify sourcing of content (especially on instagram & blog):

  * Instagram/blog: ensure mpl has right to repost/share content
  * make sure content is clearly cited

>   * example: a tutorial using someone else’s example clearly cites the original source

Reviewer: As above, possibly:

```suggestion

  example: a tutorial using someone else’s example clearly cites the original source
```

* Limited self/corporate promotion is acceptable, but should be no more than about a quarter of the content of the blog/discourse post.
* If you think content is borderline, ask on the :ref:`social-media-coordination` channels before publishing it

Image guidelines
================

> Images cannot not violate the Code of Conduct, nor a platform's rules. Specifically:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Images must not violate the Code of Conduct, nor a platform's rules. Specifically:
```

.. _communications-guidelines:

========================
Communication guidelines
========================

These guidelines are applicable when acting as a representative of Matplotlib,
for example at sprints or when giving official talks or tutorials, and in any
community venue managed by Matplotlib.

.. _communication-channels:

Official communication channels
===============================
The following venues are managed by Matplotlib maintainers and contributors:

* library and docs: https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib
* forum: https://discourse.matplotlib.org/
* chat: `https://matrix.to/#/#matplotlib:matrix.org <https://matrix.to/#/#matplotlib:matrix.org>`_
* blog: https://blog.scientific-python.org/

.. _social-media:

Social media
------------

Active social media
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* https://twitter.com/matplotlib
* https://instagram.com/matplotart/

Official accounts
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
* https://bsky.app/profile/matplotlib.bsky.social
* https://fosstodon.org/@matplotlib
* https://www.tiktok.com/@matplotart
* https://www.youtube.com/matplotlib

.. _mailing-lists:

Mailing lists

> ----------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-------------
```

* `matplotlib-announce@python.org <https://mail.python.org/mailman/listinfo/matplotlib-announce>`_
* `matplotlib-users@python.org <https://mail.python.org/mailman/listinfo/matplotlib-users>`_
* `matplotlib-devel@python.org <https://mail.python.org/mailman/listinfo/matplotlib-devel>`_

.. _social-media-coordination:

Social media coordination
-------------------------
* Team mailing list: matplotlib-social@numfocus.org
* Public chat room: `https://matrix.to/#/#matplotlib_community:gitter.im <https://matrix.to/#/#matplotlib_community:gitter.im>`_

Maintenance
-----------

If you are interested in moderating the chat or forum or accessing the social
media accounts:

* Matplotlib maintainers should reach out to the `community-manager`_.

* Everyone else should send an email to matplotlib-social-admin@numfocus.org:

  * Introduce yourself - github handle and participation in the community.
  * Describe the reason for wanting to moderate or contribute to social.

Content guidelines

> ====================

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==================
```

:ref:`code of conduct <code_of_conduct>`, nor any platform's rules.
Specifically:

* Visual media must conform to the guidelines of all sites it may be posted on:

  * https://help.twitter.com/en/rules-and-policies/twitter-rules
  * https://help.instagram.com/477434105621119

* Emphasize the visualization techniques demonstrated by the visual media.
* Clearly state that sharing is not an endorsement of the content.

  * e.g. bitcoin related visualizations

Accessibility
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Visual media in communications should be made as accessible as possible:

* Add alt text to images and videos when the platform allows:

  * `alt text for data viz <https://medium.com/nightingale/writing-alt-text-for-data-visualization-2a218ef43f81>`_
  * `general alt text guide <https://webaim.org/techniques/alttext/>`_

* Warn on bright, strobing, images & turn off autoplay if possible.
* For images and videos made by the social media team:

  * Make graphic perceivable to people who cannot perceive color well due to
    color-blindness, low vision, or any other reason.

  * Do not make bright, strobing images.
  * More guidelines at https://webaim.org/techniques/images/.

Social media

> =============

Reviewer: ```suggestion
============
```
